version control and github portfolio

As a member of IT we need to maitain the versions of the updates for instance we will write a code and sent to the testing but there are some of the bugs present in it. eventhough we screen many times to resolve there will be not corrected. for this we use version control to know where we need to modify.

Historical copies: we need to maintain these copies so that every person in team can able to know where the last update goes. this helps the whole team to follow the cycle.

Diffing files: we use diff command line tool to take two files and directories and show the difference between them in a few formats. for example: rearrange1.py, rearrange2.py 
### ubuntu: 
1. cat rearrange1.py --> got information about the file and content 
2. cat rearrange2.py
3. diff rearrange1.py rearrange2.py --> we will get the lines in the content of bothe the files (< = first line was removed and > = second line is added to the second file), 5c5,6(number indicates the line numbers, c number that line is changed, a=added)
4. diff -u file1.py file2.py it shows the change lines together with some context("-" lines are removed, "+" lines are added)
5. wdiff --> highlights the words that are changed.

Applying chnages: 
To make the change clear, you could send them a diff with the change so that they can see what the modified code looks like.(diff -u old_file new_file > change.diff)
Patch: it is file generated by diff and applies changes to the original file
1. cat file.diff --> this shows what changes made by others 
2. patch file.py < file.diff --> the changes applied to diff file reflects to the original file

Application of diff and patch:
the goal of the script is to check how much disk space is currently used
_original = which is unmodified copy, _fixed = which is used to fix the changes
1. cp file.py file_original.py
2. cp file.py file_fixed.py --> changes will be applied
3. writing sys.exit() --> which code exits with a value
4. patch file.py < file.diff --> we can see the changes

VCS(Version control systems): keep track of the changes we make to our lifes, stores configuaration and history of configuration, view, select snapshots from history of the projects.
collection of edits as single change which is commonly known as commit
files organized by repositories
DNS(maps ipaddress and host addresses) if any update is done and crashed the system then the old version is updated and rectified so by this we can achieve reliability of systems.
DHCP protocol haves the three configuration of files 1 is primary remaining 2 are stand by. if in case the primary goes down one of the stand by becomes primary.

What is Git: to manage the task development.
largest VSC, distributed architecture, can work as a stand alone program as 
SCM--> source control management 

Installation: app install git
git --version, MinGW64

Git: git config --> used to set who we are like username and password
1. git config --global user.email "email@x.com"
2. git config --global user.name "user name"
two commands to start git repositories clone, init
1. mkdir checks
2. cd checks
3. git init (initialized the repo)
4. ls -la (displays the files having dot command)
5. ls -l .git/ (we can see all the directories and files in git 
6. cp ../file.py . --> copied the file to root
7. ls -l 
8. git add file.py to make track of file
9. git status --> shows all staged files status
10. git commit (enters to the editor we type "message .") by saving we can exit
staging area is index where the file maintained by git that contains all of the information about what files and changes are going to go into your next commit.
directory--> working tree=contains current versions)
global(to set this for all repositories of our git)

Tracking files: git directory --> working tree --> staging area
tracked files are part of snapshots whereas untracked files are not part of snapshots.
each track file is modified, staged and committed
1. check constrants of working tree cd checks
2. ls -l
3. git status
4. atom file.py
5. git status
6. git add file.py
7. git commit -m"message"

Workflow
1. mkdir scripts
2. cd scripts
3. git init
4. git config -l //checking configuration
5. git status
6. git add file.py
7. git commit -m"done"

Anatomy of commit: we can track VCS
git log is used to display git commit messages

